it looks perfectly normal but watch this
there's a little kickstand under here
then okay I can take the keyboard off
and boom second display that's right
guys Asus sponsored this video and
brought CES 20124 here to our studio to
show off the brand new Zenbook Duo that
considering the dual screen laptops
we've seen in the past has had a
shocking amount of thought put into it I
guess it kind of makes sense though this
is far from asus's first run at this
concept first they put a screen in a
trackpad which was of questionable
utility then they moved the keyboard
down and put a screen above it which was
pretty sweet for video editors and only
video editors then last year they
released the Zenbook 17 fold which was
pretty cool but had an eyew watering
$3500 reserved purely for those with
more money than brains well that's where
the new Zenbook Duo comes in by issuing
sci-fi screen technology and instead
going for a simple hinge Asus was able
to fold the starting price in half
putting this thing in reach of middle
managers rather than just those in the
sea suite and Asus actually identified
this need when their own marketing
department asked for it this is what I'm
talking about laptops have gotten so
powerful that many companies just don't
bother issuing desktops anymore and this
is the weapon of choice for many
staffers at isus and actually here for
that matter it's pretty solid you drag
your reference materials up here work on
your presentation down here but then
shoot it's time to run to a meeting and
well I hope you didn't need your second
screen meanwhile with the duo you can
pack the whole thing up and take it with
you in exactly that amount of time
arrive at the meeting set up your battle
station and uh God willing get some
actual work done while other people talk
about stuff that has nothing to do with
your kpis for the panels on these
machines you get either dual full HD
oleds on the base model or on the
premium ones you can get dual 3K oleds
running at 120 HZ and isus advertises
four different operating modes for the
machine laptop mode desktop mode sharing
mode or dual screen mode though I
suspect most people are primarily going
to be switching between laptop and dual
screen modes which worked surprisingly
well especially given that this is
pre-production hardware like just look
at this boom laptop mode Let's
go like that that's pretty darn seamless
one mode I was hoping for that we didn't
get is Battleship mode which I guess
you'd normally call tent mode on a flip
laptop uh yeah that's as far as it goes
as Su said that they decided against it
because a hinge that goes more than 180°
that also is large enough to accommodate
the keyboard in the middle would have
been expensive and very heavy as it is
without the keyboard the Zenbook Duo
comes in at just 1.35 kilos and with the
keyboard 1.65 k kilos with most of that
weight being the displays themselves
which doesn't really surprise me like
this thing feels flipping dense to help
counteract some of that the entire
chassis is made out of magnesium alloy
uh side note by the way if you're
wondering about the durability of the
hinge Asus says that with the keyboard
removed you can put up to 25 kg on top
of a closed shell before things start to
go bad oh yeah that's ooh that would be
really important to know should I be
doing this on the pre-production one
yeah you can sit on it on that note
another advantage of the approach Asus
took with this device is durability
foldables super cool and I'm on the
record kind of loving them but they
can't use Gorilla Glass and in a device
that's going to have stuff on top of the
screen all the time by Design there's a
lot to be said for using a scratch
resistant glass but the real Special
Sauce here isn't the displays it's
actually the keyboard isus told us that
it was incredibly difficult to develop a
keyboard controller that's able to
seamlessly handle going between a wired
connection through these Pogo pins down
here and a Bluetooth one and then when
you attach the keyboard it uses 14
magnets that ensure proper alignment
with the Pogo pins and boom now it's
using a wired connection the other Big
Challenge was building something this
thin that still manages to feel pretty
decent that's 14 magnets for you it
really does feel pretty decent doesn't
it it's kind of like if you didn't have
a keyboard at all and there was just a
keyboard embedded in the surface of the
table in front of you it's uh pretty
cool 1.4 mm of travel
which how much of the entire thickness
of this thing is that we can check yeah
we should check I love that Alex keeps a
pair of calipers in his backpack 3 and
1/2 4 mm thick something like that so
then that's about a third of it is key
travel wow and we haven't even talked
about the possibility of still using a
third Monitor and then just moving this
to wherever is most ergonomic for you
now you got three displays the overall
concept of this machine is similar to a
folding one that I've been daily driving
recently you know seamlessly switching
between I've just got to type a couple
of emails mode and productivity monster
mode but something that I have sorely
missed on my machine is decent IO and
this
this is a big Improvement I've got a
usba a dual Thunderbolt ports HDMI and a
32 mm audio jack I mean it's not the
same as a gaming PC but it is more than
enough for the typical Road Warrior
these are Thunderbolt 4 too which I
guess makes sense this is running on the
latest core Ultra 9 185h processor has
up to 32 gigs of lpddr 5x memory at a
wild 7467 megatrans per second this is
thanks to how close the ram is to the
CPU something Asus worked on with Intel
last year it's got one SSD slot which
it's technically upgradeable but is
underneath the main board so accessing
it won't be for the faint of heart only
those in possession of the upcoming
Precision Screwdriver from LTT store.com
and it has a
75w battery that's a lot considering its
size and they're expecting it to be
enough for 13 1/2 hours on one screen 10
hours on two screens though that isn't
Final in designing the the cooling
solution Asus said the difficult part
wasn't keeping the processor cooled
they've done that hundreds of times at
this point the hard part was keeping the
screen cool because OLED really doesn't
like high heat so they had to put a heat
spreader behind the OLED panel maintain
a slim air gap between the CPU and the
display and put a graphite sheet on the
bottom cover to ensure the display is
always under 45° another way to manage
heat is running the displays dimmer and
asus's solution to that is surprisingly
flexible screen expert allows you to not
only adjust the displays but decouple
them if you've got a background noise
when show running on one of them and you
want to save some battery on that screen
but want to see what you're doing on the
other one you can share a flipped image
between them you can lock in rotation
there's a bunch of other cool stuff in
screen expert but my personal favorite
is the task groups task groups allow you
to position all of your applications
exactly how you want across both
displays and then just click to open
them all at once to the exact locations
you want I don't know about you guys but
I hate arriving at work to find my
computer restarted overnight and all my
windows are messed up and I just have to
move them all around hey this is the
solution I mean if you don't feel like
using power toys which is also a
solution to that which brings us to the
end of the really cool stuff about this
laptop and the beginning of the stuff
that I reluctantly talk about because
Asus really wants us too like the a
virtual
keyboard it's supposed to be six right
six fingers
yeah nice oh did it nice it works really
well really good
feature there it is everything else
about this machine is really cool and
appears to solve real world problems
this is horrible but I mean I don't know
okay what if I forgot my keyboard and
every other keyboard was consumed by the
great keyboard
fire
yeah maybe pricing is expected to start
at around $1,500 and depending on your
region it could come with a pen oh we
have those we have those we have them oh
oh okay wow thanks
Alex pen wow carrying case wow backpack
neat and you might get them or you might
not if you guys enjoyed this video maybe
check out our other asuc CES coverage
where we looked
at they updated gaming machines okay
they look pretty sick